---  
title: Silence and Noise
author: Craig Eley 
date: 2014-07-15
layout: post
tags: [sound]
redirect_to: http://fieldnoise.com/07-15-2014/noise
---

Last month I saw some nifty looking embedded Ngrams in a [blog post](http://www.cplong.org/2014/06/seeding-publics-from-a-world-of-readers/) by Chris Long, and I was reminded of two things: 1) I haven't messed with Ngram in awhile, and 2) I wasn't entirely sure how HTML iFrames would embed on this new blog. I'm happy to report that both turned out great—in fact, much better than I expected.

One of the things that comes up in my research in is how "noise" was incorporated into environmentalist discourse in the 1960s as a kind of "pollutant." This was, in part, a technique mobilized by anti-supersonic flight activists who thought the sonic boom was a problem. (They were right.) Though one Ngram certainly doesn't tell this whole story, it was interesting to see it corroborated: the occurrence of "noise" surpasses "silence" right around 1961.

<iframe src="//books.google.com/ngrams/interactive_chart?content=silence%2C+noise&year_start=1800&year_end=2012&corpus=0&smoothing=3&share=&direct_url=t1%3B%2Csilence%3B%2Cc0%3B.t1%3B%2Cnoise%3B%2Cc0" width="100%" height="325" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" hspace="0" vspace="0" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

This change seems to have started around 1920; before that, silence and noise have remarkably similar curves, with silence occurring at a much higher rate. Of course, what is also interesting—and, to me, totally unsurprising—is the meteoric rise of "silence" in the last decade (2004-onwards). Silence has again become a kind of [urban and environmental cause of the moment](/02-03-2014/after-seeing-this-new-film-trailer-im-pretty/), which is again reflected in the data.

There is certainly a lot more to say about this, but it's a great kind of synergy when testing some new tools and website tricks leads you down a more productive and stimulating road.
